IPFS Setup/ installation tutorial (#263)
protocol/launchpad: content/en/curriculum/ipfs/basics.md

---
title: "IPFS CLI Basics (Tutorial)"
description: "Deep Dive Tutorial – Access Files with the IPFS CLI"
draft: false
menu:
    curriculum:
        parent: "curriculum-ipfs"
weight: 105
category: tutorial
level:
- shallow
- deep
---

## Background
In this tutorial you can do some basic things with the public IPFS filesystem. This video tutorial provides instructions for how to install and run commands with the IPFS API using a Unix-type shell & operating system.

## Prerequisites
* The [latest version of Go (golang)](https://go.dev/doc/install)
* A shell where you can run Unix-type commands either on a Mac, or (Li)Unix machine, or Windows [Powershell](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell-on-windows?view=powershell-7.2)
  * Optional: [a Linux VM like Multipass](https://multipass.run/)
* Install [wget](https://www.tecmint.com/install-wget-in-linux/) on the operating system (OS) you are using
* IPFS Docs' [kubo (go-ipfs) Command-line commands](https://docs.ipfs.tech/reference/kubo/cli/#ipfs)

## Instructions – IPFS CLI Basics: Accessing Files

> In this tutorial, you can follow along to understand the basics of how you, as a user, can access file in the pubilc IPFS network. Follow along with the examples to learn about pinning and adding files, how files from IPFS can be previewed and inspected, and learn a bit about how that data is created and stored on IPFS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you can follow along to understand the basics of how you, as a user, can access files in the public IPFS network. Follow along with the examples to learn about pinning and adding files, how files from IPFS can be previewed and inspected, and learn a bit about how that data is created and stored on IPFS.
```
